So the first step in our keyword research is really to do some keyword brainstorming.
And in this lecture I want to give you a process to do that using three different tools.
By the end of this lecture then you will have an excel sheet full of about 50 to 75 key words which
then in the next lecture we're going to bring into the Google Keyword planner to narrow that stand by
really checking the monthly search volumes.
But for now we want to get as many ideas as we can because if we want to find a low competition keywords
we've got to find keywords.
Maybe our competition aren't targeting.
And so that is the objective of this election.
So there are many many different tools that you could use for keyword brainstorming but I've selected
three in particular.
Firstly because they're all free and secondly because each two will help us think in a different way
and that means that we will have the greatest list at the end of this process.
The most diverse and broad range of terms that we can.
So the first two we're going to look at using Wikipedia you're probably already very familiar with this
.
But in terms of SE1 key we're brainstorming a great thing about it is that there's a lot of linking
between the pages and that can help us find closely related terms.
Secondly we're going to look at red dot com for an unfamiliar readed It's a Web site where people post
links and have discussions usually a very passionate group of people and they have very specific conversations
there so there can be some really high value keywords that we want to look at and pull out of there
.
So the final tool in our keyword brainstorming session is called suggest dot org.
And what this tool is going to help us to is really find longtail keywords what I mean by that is key
words that contain two or three words.
So for example with this tool you'll pop in say drones and it'll spit out hundreds of suggestions of
longer tail keywords like drones cameras drones that follow you drones for sale.
And often these key words the longer tail keywords are less competitive and that's why we want to use
this tool as well.
So those are the three tools we're going to be looking at.
So let's get straight into it.
So first let's head over to Wikipedia dot org.
We're going to try and think laterally here and find synonyms for a keyword example drums.
OK remote controlled pilotless aircraft unmanned aerial vehicle unmanned combat aerial vehicle quad
copter quad rotor helicopter.
So these are all I mean good ones and as you can see they are all in call to other pages which probably
have a rotorcraft fixed wing aircraft rotors tail rotors.
I mean there's just this UAV.
There's a whole sort of key words there that seem very very interesting.
So next we want to go over to Ratatat come on and try and find some.
So Brad it's root by drones.
So here's something that looks interesting.
As you can see there is different so Brad it's so DIY Drones is one UAV drones is another multi copter
drone that's just have a look in this on DIY Drones.
So what you'll see here is probably a lot of hard core people talking about drones.
And that's the general consensus so this looks H.K. this is some type of product or product.
Harsh
quadcopter part lists that could be that could be interesting.
People talking about the different parts selling arms and parts and quad parts drone versus or Halles
.
Is you know another key word as well.
Specific questions as well that people are talking many refuting blog posts.
And if these are popular you can see how many people are talking about them.
So really there's a lot of stuff in there.
But you can really just explore and see what it looks interesting and put you back to your own spreadsheet
.
So the final way we're going to get hundreds of potential keywords is to use this tool called it was
suggested to work again it's free and all you have to do is type in your keyword right here.
So I've already typed in drones and as you can see they've given me 370 suggestions.
This is very similar to when you type into Google.
It gives you some suggestions here but there's only about 10 or so.
So this tool really gives you much more suggested keywords.
And so what you can do is ignore them through the lists.
And so you can kind of to a clipboard.
The key words that you think are relevant and that are good so for example drones for sale drones camera
that's relevant to fun.
Tryna sell drones drones White has it's more of a news story.
It's not a keyword that somebody would type in who wouldn't necessarily want to buy a drone.
It's more something just news related.
So let's keep moving now and you can see they have the key word plus another word starting with the
letter A.
Here drone aerial photography that's quite interesting.
Drone attacks OK in transit zone.
Yes those are interesting grounds passed by drone battery life.
Quite interesting there could be an article of someone looking to buy a drone etc. so you click the
ones that you like and then you can just copy and paste these back into your cell.
So just to recap on this lecture the purpose of it was to really build a list of potential key words
.
The reason that we wanted to do a bit of research and think outside the box think laterally going deep
and finding longer tail keywords is because the most obvious key words are going to be extremely competitive
.
It's unlikely that you're going to get to the top of the search results and get the traffic for those
key words.
So that's why you have to do a little bit of digging and find keywords that maybe your competitors have
overlooked.
So now that you put the key words that you find from these three resources into an Excel walk we're
going to do in the next is really make a data driven decision and find which of those key words actually
gets the most searches.
And then we can start to narrow down the list.